DKP Insights first draft (#4225)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kommander/2.2/insights/insights-setup/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Insights setup and configuration
title: Insights setup and configuration
excerpt: Enable DKP Insights in managmenet and attached/managed clusters
menuWeight: 20
beta: false
enterprise: false
techPreview: true
---

> DKP Insights is installed by default on your Management Cluster, and then you need to manually enable the DKP Insights Engine in order to begin viewing insight items for your environment.

Reviewer: I think we need to make it clear that only the UI is installed 'by default'.   Also,  do we have a preferred phraseology/capitalization for "Insights items"?  "Insights Items"?   

```suggestion
The DKP Insights UI is installed by default on your Management Cluster.  To begin viewing Insight items for your environment, you need to manually enable the DKP Insights Engine.
```

Reviewer 2: @nataliepina does the empty state of Insights give the user the heads up that they need to do this?

Reviewer 3: It does not. It only states that they are no insights available and links to the docs.

## Enable the DKP Insights engine

To enable DKP Insights:

1.  Apply yaml on your management cluster from the CLI:

   ```bash

>    export WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE=kommander
> 
>    kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
>    apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
>    kind: GitRepository
>    metadata:
>     name: insights-catalog-applications
>     namespace: ${WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE}
>     labels:
>      kommander.d2iq.io/gitapps-gitrepository-type: dkp
>      kommander.d2iq.io/workspace-default-catalog-repository: "true"
>    spec:
>     interval: 1m0s
>     ref:
>      branch: main
>     timeout: 20s
>     url: https://github.com/mesosphere/insights-catalog-applications
>    EOF

Reviewer: Question for @kaiwalyajoshi - do we really need this variable substitution here, it seems like we only ever apply this config to the management cluster and thus the kommander namespace?

Also, how does one do this Airgapped?   If we don't have a solution for AG in 2.2, can I suggest we remove the mentions of airgapped for now?

I think the example would be simpler if we just 'hardcode' this for the kommander NS.

```suggestion
   kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
   apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
   kind: GitRepository
   metadata:
    name: insights-catalog-applications
    namespace: kommander
    labels:
     kommander.d2iq.io/gitapps-gitrepository-type: dkp
     kommander.d2iq.io/workspace-default-catalog-repository: "true"
   spec:
    interval: 1m0s
    ref:
     branch: main
    timeout: 20s
    url: https://github.com/mesosphere/insights-catalog-applications
   EOF
```

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Insights Setup and Configuration
title: Insights Setup and Configuration
excerpt: Enable DKP Insights Engine
menuWeight: 20
beta: false
enterprise: false
techPreview: true
---

> DKP Insights Management is installed by default on your Management Cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
DKP Insights Management installs by default on your Management Cluster, when you install or upgrade to DKP 2.2 and higher.
```

> Enable the DKP Insights Engine manually on each Attached cluster, to receive insight items on the Insights Dashboard.

Author: ```suggestion
To receive insight items on the Insights Dashboard, enable the DKP Insights Engine manually on each managed or attached or cluster.
```

## Enable the DKP Insights Engine

1.  Add DKP Insights Engine Addon

>     Add the DKP Insights Engine Addons by applying the following YAML from the CLI:
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

    ```yaml
    kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
    kind: GitRepository
    metadata:
      name: insights-catalog-applications
      namespace: kommander
      labels:
        kommander.d2iq.io/gitapps-gitrepository-type: dkp
        kommander.d2iq.io/workspace-default-catalog-repository: "true"
    spec:
      interval: 1m0s
      ref:
        branch: main
      timeout: 20s
      url: https://github.com/mesosphere/insights-catalog-applications
    EOF
    ```

    This grants all Attached clusters the ability to enable the Insights Engine, and DKP Insights icon appears under Applications.

> 1.  Enable the DKP Insights Engine on each Attached cluster from the DKP UI by selecting: Cluster -> Applications -> Options Menu -> Enable -> Deploy with defaults.

Author: ```suggestion
1.  Enable the DKP Insights Engine on each Attached cluster from the DKP UI by selecting: **Cluster**, **Applications**, **Options Menu**, **Enable**, **Deploy with defaults**.
```
